REP 4 — Place every action on the ladder

Tiers: DETECT (observe only, no proposal) / SUGGEST (proposes, doesn't
act) / APPROVE (proposes and acts, but gated behind human sign-off) /
ACT (executes autonomously, no gate)

A. kubectl rollout restart deploy/api
   Tier: APPROVE
   Justification: Reversible (a restart doesn't destroy data, and a
   prior known-good pod set can be restored), but it causes real
   service disruption during the restart window -- blast radius is
   "brief downtime for real users," which is enough to warrant a human
   confirming this is the right moment, not enough to require it stay
   at SUGGEST-only.

B. journalctl --vacuum-size=500M
   Tier: APPROVE
   Justification: This is the exact node-7 example from
   sample_incident.log. Reversible in the sense that it doesn't break
   anything running, but it is destructive to historical log data
   (irreversible once vacuumed) -- you cannot get deleted logs back.
   Low blast radius on live service, but real and permanent data loss,
   so a human confirms once before it runs.

C. du -x -d1 /var | sort -rh
   Tier: ACT (or even just DETECT/auto-run as part of diagnosis)
   Justification: Purely read-only, zero blast radius, fully
   reversible by definition since nothing changes state. This is
   exactly the kind of action the disk_mcp_server.py's design
   philosophy endorses running without a gate.

D. resize-pvc data-var --to 500Gi
   Tier: APPROVE (this is the exact action that went wrong at node-4
   when mis-tiered to ACT)
   Justification: Real financial cost attached (directly proven by the
   incident log's node-4 counter-example: +$1840/mo unplanned spend),
   and volume resizes are typically NOT reversible (you can't easily
   shrink a PVC back down after growing it, and shrinking to reclaim
   money can itself risk data loss). High blast radius in dollars and
   potential irreversibility -- this must never be ACT.

E. systemctl stop nginx
   Tier: APPROVE
   Justification: Immediately and directly stops serving real traffic
   -- the most visible, highest-immediacy user impact of any action on
   this list. Reversible (start it back up), but the WINDOW of impact
   while stopped could matter enormously depending on what's behind
   nginx. A human should confirm this is an acceptable moment for that
   outage.

F. apt-get clean
   Tier: ACT
   Justification: Only removes cached package files that can be
   re-downloaded on demand; does not touch installed packages,
   configuration, or application state. Effectively zero real blast
   radius and trivially "reversible" in the sense that nothing of
   value is actually lost.